I'm gonna try to record a video for you
while walking you the streets of Athens
here got Melissa standing next me
off-camera of course so I'm gonna talk
about the importance of university
education for non-specialists I think
there's this really kind of dangerous
false assumption which is of course
convenient for professors and convenient
for administrators University that
University education in a given field
only exists for research scientists and
research specialists in that field like
for example if you have a University
Department of Anthropology that they it
only exists to educate be one a student
out of a hundred who will go on to a PhD
in that field like really really
realistically if you look at any
anthropology 101 class a bunch of
teenagers Melissa you were you were 17
when you started University
so bunch of 17 year olds in a classroom
studying anthropology and nobody's
really designed in the course of
education they're thinking what are we
teaching a bunch of 17 year olds it's
going to be meaningful to them for the
rest of their lives meaningful or useful
or both people design the whole course
of philosophy education the
undergraduate level for the one student
in a thousand who will go on to get a
PhD if you have specialized expertise
whether that's becoming fluent in Latin
or Greek or German and doing original
research in that field is very
fundamental it doesn't make sense
so look guys we just watched this video
from tofu goddess Liana
but she's reflecting on the failure of
her education in a cosmetology she is
reflecting on the fact that she is now a
beauty school dropout and there are some
things we can relate to there because we
are collectively baking school dropouts
who went to a private college to learn
how to bake bread and it was a disaster
we have wrong videos on that and she
even comes to the conclusion
after going to beauty school and
dropping out that really it's the life
of the mind that manager it's a more
intellectual path more intellectual than
learning how to do hair and makeup that
she wants the secret I'm into so I gotta
say that the first conversation the
first conversation I have with tofu
goddess actually made a really really
positive impression on me I think it was
like a three hour conversation or
something if not it was long long Skype
call I had with her this is what four
years ago or some crap okay I couldn't
have been that long ago three years ago
and you know she really seemed like
someone who had very sincere motivations
to be involved with vegan activism she
seemed like someone who had a very
pragmatic constructed attitude towards
vegan activism someone who didn't want
to waste her time didn't want to be a
martyr and Street protests didn't want
to do counterproductive and stupid
things and you know just you know she
just seemed like a smart highly
motivated focused person and I think
we've all had to come to the conclusion
over the last three years that that is
just not the case and she had to decide
that she was not cut out for the
particular university education she was
enrolled in she had to decide to switch
her major to philosophy and I think it's
fair to say just based on once you sit
in public YouTube videos that she had to
decide that university education was
really not for her in general she
decided that you know the whole the
whole system didn't work for her she
said the university ruined her life so
and so forth now when you think about
getting a BA in philosophy what do you
think about what is that course of
Education exist for you can tell I'm
moving the phone around cuz the the
sidewalks are so anyway is what this the
historical charm of downtown Athens
Greece that's what I'm sharing with you
here in the background
in the British Empire right up to World
War one there was a very different
understanding of what university
education in philosophy existed for why
anyone would take this course philosophy
didn't exist to train that one student
in a thousand go on to be a researcher
specialist to the PhD you could say that
right up to World War one the British
concept of being a bachelor even thing
with the word Bachelor in philosophy was
probably of being a born wealthy
gentleman either going to inherit land
thus be a landed aristocrat thus be
involved in animal husbandry farming
would have you I mean let's be clear
here the life of an aristocrat
historically did not just mean wasting
money and going around on a yacht on
permanent vacation being an aristocrat
meant that you were involved with food
production and war you know military
service and it's for that reason of
course that the aristocratic culture of
England in many ways comes to an end
with what were one not before and not
after but you know education of
philosophy boredom
preparing these young men to live a more
meaningful life yet so light would have
been preparing these young men to lead a
more meaningful life during their years
of running the family business so I mean
the point being whether they inherit
land or with maybe they were from a
wealthy bourgeois family where they'd be
inheriting the parents company these
would be young men who already knew at
age 17 what their future career would be
how they would how they would earn a
living but what they didn't know and
what they would be in university to
learn was how to live a meaningful life
and of course in that British Empire
period there was a consensus among the
instructors as to what a meaningful life
was what that meant in practice that it
meant being familiar with Cicero now
today I don't think there is any such
consensus I don't think anyone would
feel confident telling a 17-year old
look kid if you want to know what life
is about for lead a meaningful life
you've got to hit the books and read
Cicero you've got to get a foundation in
the Latin and Greek classics you've got
to read for example the history of the
church fathers and how Aristotle relates
to the development of Catholic and
Protestant theology something used to be
clear the philosophy I actually like
that I appreciate in ancient Greece was
taught with very different motivations
very different preoccupations in a
Christian cultural context even though
you're often dealing with exactly the
same text
so the question I'm asking for you here
is isn't university education failing us
all by no longer for even taking any
interest in this goal and I can't call
it a democratic or public spirited goal
I think it was before an elitist and
aristocratic goal of preparing young
gentlemen to lead up meaningful life and
you know all these ridiculous subjects
in the humanities again we can even
think about what is the meaning of the
humanities but you know there was a time
when whether it will be art history or
philosophy classics or indeed the study
of politics which was also called the
study of great it's another interesting
little history within academia the
teaching of the greats it's a British
tradition meaning that you read the
greatest thinkers the most influential
minds and so on when there was an
understanding that this wasn't preparing
you for the same job that the professor
was doing in class not everyone was
going to study Latin in order to be a
Latin tutor
that's ridiculous not everyone was going
to study philosophy to be a philosophy
professor or a PhD philosophy researcher
that's ridiculous that there was some
purpose for university education linked
to a meaningful life to being a refined
person whether or not that was spending
your whole life on a farm because again
an aristocratic manor is it's a farm
with a big house on it those would be
people who you know owned orchards and
raised pigeons and pheasants and all
this kind of stuff it would be a life
where you get your hands dirty whether
or not it has two aristocratic involved
that was a matter of preparing students
not to be better soldiers in the army
not giving the military training but
preparing them to lead a meaningful life
where they would be confident ultimately
in
laying down their lives to the Empire
alright guys and so to end this video
there in the background
I think I've got it I think I've got it
on camera am i way off wow that's a hard
shot to get I just barely have visible
behind me
nasha use IAM and above it the yeah
there it is there it is the corner of
our sacred fortress of the mountain the
Acropolis I mean really people like to
disrespect my truth but the fact is that
you know my name is I don't know